About Me
Cloud Architect and DevOps Engineer focused on scalable, secure, and easily
maintainable infrastructures. Curious and always seeking opportunities to learn, I enjoy
transforming complex problems into simple solutions, following the KISS principle,
"Keep It Simple, Stupid."

Andrea De Tomasi
Cloud Architect & DevOps Engineer AWS ·
Kubernetes · Terraform · FinOps
andreadetodev@gmail.com
+393281962978
Vicenza, Veneto, Italy
https://adetomasi.com

 andrea-de-tomasi

In my free time, I enjoy practicing sports and spending time in nature, whether it's
going for a walk or flying paragliders.
Experience
Freelance
Cloud Architecture Consultant
AWS · Terraform · Kubernetes · FinOps · Security

January 2025 - Present

Design and implementation of scalable cloud infrastructures, with a focus on cost
optimization, automation, and data security.
Achieved AWS cost reductions of 30–50% for customers through strategic FinOps
implementations, autoscaling policies, and migrations.

Certifications

Conducted cloud architecture security audits, identifying potential vulnerabilities.

CKA: Certified Kubernetes Administrator
October 2025

Designed Cloud solutions integrated with development teams, using AWS managed

Linux Foundation

Implemented infrastructure monitoring systems, preventing potential downtime of
critical services through alerting and dashboards.

AWS Certified Solutions Architect Professional
In progress
AWS
OCI Architect Associate
April 2024
Oracle
Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching
CISCO
IELTS Academy English C1
Skills
Cloud: AWS, OCI
Containers: Kubernetes, ECS, EKS
IaC: Terraform, AWS CDK, Ansible
CI/CD: GitLab CI
Observability: Grafana, CloudWatch,
Zabbix
Programming: TypeScript, Python

services with Terraform and DevOps practices for automated deployments.

https://adetomasi.com
Icaro

Remote

Cloud Architect
January 2025 - January 2026
EC2 · ECS · RDS · Networking · IoT MQTT · Aurora · Athena · Firehose · Terraform
Design and implementation of Cloud infrastructure for an internal product
IoT Infrastructure: setup and configuration of AWS IoT Core, MQTT, Timestream,
Firehose to receive data from IoT devices, perform batching and compression.
Large Scale Query: setup for visualizing IoT device metrics via Grafana, using AWS
Athena for time-series data queries on S3.
Edge Device: configuration of IoT devices using Node-Red for in-place processing,
before forwarding data to AWS.
Cloud Infrastructure: Designed and implemented cloud infrastructure on AWS for an
internal product. Networking, Database, Security, Computing, ECS, SSL Certificates,
Domains, Load Balancing, RBAC.
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with Terraform: Managed the entire AWS infrastructure
using Terraform.


CI/CD Pipeline Development: Developed CI/CD pipelines on GitLab to automate
testing, building, and deployment.

AI: LangChain, RAG, OpenAIcompatible APIs

Autoscaling, Backup and Monitoring: Implemented autoscaling strategies, backup
solutions, and monitoring/alerting systems.
AWS RDS and Database Management: Designed and managed AWS RDS instances
Technology Reply
Cloud & AI Engineer
January 2024 - January 2025
AWS · OCI · Kubernetes · Terraform · RAG · LangChain · OpenAI APIs
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure: Management of Oracle Cloud environments with
Terraform and Kubernetes, across four environments between production and
development.
GitLab & CI/CD: Development of pipelines for automatic deployment of
infrastructures and applications, configuration and management of projects and
permissions
Infrastructure Observability: Setup of an observability project for an infrastructure
of ~1,000 servers with EasyVista Observe and Zabbix.
Log Management: Evaluation of log management solutions (Datadog, Grafana,
Elastic) for centralized monitoring and analysis.
RAG Chains: Development of RAG chains with LangChain and OpenAI or
Transformer backends, integrating internal documentation and email history.
Q/A Bot: Development of a Q/A bot based on RAG on customer incident history, with
cloud service on GPU and OpenAI-compatible APIs for greater privacy and
performance.
2hire
Backend Developer / Cloud Engineer
March 2023 - January 2024
Typescript · CDK · AWS · Timestream · Grafana · Prometheus
AWS Infrastructure: Management of AWS infrastructure with CDK and DevOps
practices (ECS, EC2, S3, Timestream).
Backend TypeScript: Development and maintenance of backend services in
TypeScript.
IoT & MQTT: Management of MQTT data reception from edge devices, processing via
gateway, and forwarding to AWS Timestream. Data consumption from backend
services for charts and real-time visualization.
Deployment and Monitoring: Setup of deployment pipelines and application
monitoring with Grafana, AWS CloudWatch, and Prometheus
Agile: Working in an Agile context with Git, Jira, and Kanban, actively participating in
Scrum ceremonies.
Log Management: Contribution to a log compression system on Google Cloud
Buckets and on-the-fly decompression via Elastic.
Education
Technische Universität Berlin
Blockchain Prototyping

Master's Thesis
2022

Complete design and implementation from scratch of a Layer 2 using zero-knowledge
rollups for Tezos blockchain.
Wrote and deployed the program and smart contracts to manage and verify rollups,
achieving a 99% reduction in L1 transaction costs.
Technische Universität Berlin
Cloud and Network Infrastructure

Master's Degree
2022 - 2023

Cloud computing (Flink, Hadoop, OpenStack, Kubernetes, Ansible, AWS)
Blockchain prototyping on Tezos Layer 2 Blockchain
Université de Rennes 1
Cloud and Network Infrastructure

Master's Degree
2021 - 2022

Internet Networks
Microservices and container technologies
Multiprocessor Coordination
Performance evaluation models
Distributed architectures
Distributed services
Distributed and concurrent programming with OpenMP, Open MPI and CUDA
Università di Padova
Computer Science

Bachelor's Degree

